[GitHub Apps] integration page (#8269)
circleci/circleci-docs: jekyll/_cci2/github-apps-integration.adoc

- At this time, auto-cancel redundant workflows is not supported. Refer to the xref:skip-build#auto-cancelling[Auto cancelling] section of the `skip` or `cancel` jobs and workflows page for more details.

[#project-settings-ssh-keys]
=== GitHub project SSH keys

When creating a project in CircleCI, you will create and add SSH keys. At this time, only **Additional SSH Keys** are applicable to GitHub App integrations.

[#create-ssh-key]
==== Create an SSH key

You will be guided through the SSH key generation process in the CircleCI web app on the **Create Project** page. The steps are as follows:

. Create an SSH key-pair by using the following command. When prompted to enter a passphrase, do **not** enter one:
+
```shell
  ssh-keygen -t ed25519 -C "your_email@example.com"
```

. Go to your GitHub repository menu:Settings[Security > Deploy Keys]. Copy and paste your public key here. We **do not** require write access. The title can be anything you want.

. In the CircleCI web app **Create Project** page, copy and paste your private key, including `---BEGIN RSA PRIVATE KEY---` and `---END RSA PRIVATE KEY---`, into the **GitHub personal SSH key** field.

> When you push to your GitLab repository from a job, CircleCI will use the SSH key you added.

Reviewer: Should be GitHub instead of GitLab

> When you push to your GitLab repository from a job, CircleCI will use the SSH key you added.

Author: ```suggestion
When you push to your GitHub repository from a job, CircleCI will use the SSH key you added.
```

=== Auto-cancel redundant workflows

Auto-cancel redundant workflows is not currently supported. It is often used to remove noise from the pipeline page and lower the time to feedback for a commit. Refer to the xref:skip-build#auto-cancelling[Skip or cancel jobs and workflows] page for more details.

[#passing-secrets-to-forked-pull-requests]
=== Passing secrets to forked pull requests

Passing secrets to forked pull requests is not currently supported.

[#stop-building]
=== Stop building

GitHub App integrations do not currently support the **Stop Building** option that can normally be found in **Project settings**.

The recommendation is to either:

* Suspend your installation. This would stop sending all events to CircleCI, so all builds will stop. This option is available in GitHub **Organization settings** under the **GitHub Apps** menu option.
* Stop a single project from sending events to CircleCI. This option is available in GitHub **Organization settings** under the **GitHub Apps** menu option. Under **Repository access**, select **Only select repositories** and deselect the repository you want to stop building.

[#ssh-rerun]
=== SSH rerun

> SSH reruns are not currently supported for GitHub App projects. This feature is in development and will be available soon.

Author: ```suggestion
SSH reruns are not currently supported for GitHub App projects. This feature will be available in a future release.
```

> SSH reruns are not currently supported for GitHub App projects. This feature is in development and will be available soon.

Reviewer: I think we should use similar language as we do for auto-cancel redundant builds and scheduled pipelines. It's unclear when we'll be able to prioritize working on SSH reruns. I would just say "will be available in a future release".

[#additional-ssh-keys-only]
=== Additional SSH keys only

> Deploy keys and user keys are not used by GitHub Apps integrations. All keys are stored in **Project Settings > Additional SSH Keys**. Use the **Create Project** option to get a project set up. You will be guided through creating SSH keys for your project.

Author: ```suggestion
Deploy keys and user keys are not used by GitHub Apps integrations. All keys are stored in menu:Project Settings[ Additional SSH Keys]. Use the **Create Project** option to get a project set up. You will be guided through creating SSH keys for your project.
```

---
contentTags:
  platform:
  - Cloud
---
= GitHub App integration overview
:page-layout: classic-docs
:page-liquid:
:page-description: Learn how to integrate GitHub with CircleCI to manage your GitHub CI/CD pipelines.
:icons: font
:experimental:

[NOTE]
====

> **GitHub authentication with CircleCI is changing**. Starting 14th August 2023 when you authenticate your CircleCI account with GitHub, this will be done through our GitHub App, rather than the GitHub OAuth app. You can see which account type you have by heading to the CircleCI web app and inspecting the URL in your browser:

Reviewer: There's going to be a rollout period so only some users will be on GitHub App starting that week. Don't know if we want to clarify that it's being rolled out as opposed to all users getting it from 8/14.

* This style of URL indicates you authenticated with the **GitHub App**: `https://app.circleci.com/pipelines/circleci/UTxCZDiJ9MLGLC8hR1ZDmg`
* This style of URL indicates you authenticated with the **GitHub OAuth app**: `https://app.circleci.com/github/<your GitHub username>`

For more information about the differences, see the link:https://docs.github.com/en/apps/oauth-apps/building-oauth-apps/differences-between-github-apps-and-oauth-apps[GitHub docs comparison page].
====

If your CircleCI account is authenticated through the **GitHub App**, the content on this page is for you.

This page walks you through integrating a GitHub project with CircleCI. The sections below introduce you to concepts and ways to manage CI/CD (continuous integration and continuous delivery) pipelines for your GitHub project. CircleCI features that are in development for GitHub projects are detailed in the <<coming-soon>> section.

The following limits are currently in place for GitHub App integrations:

> - Each user can create up to three organizations.

Reviewer 2: I do believe it's currently 5, yeah.

> - Each user can create up to three organizations.

Reviewer 2: If we want to be 100% sure, #ciam-team will know if there are users that only get 3

If you use the **Fast** config setup, the pipeline is not triggered until you save the `.circleci/config.yml` by clicking the **Commit and Run** button in the web app.

Each time you push changes to your GitHub repository, a new pipeline is triggered and you should see it running for the project within the CircleCI web app.

image::{{site.baseurl}}/assets/img/docs/gl-ga/gitlab-ga-successful-pipeline.png[Successful pipeline run]

Editing an existing CircleCI configuration within the web app is not currently available. You may make further changes to the config in your GitHub repo. Committing further changes in your repo will automatically trigger a pipeline.

Manually triggering a pipeline from the CircleCI web app is not available at this time.

[#project-settings]
== Project settings

Within CircleCI, a project can have one or more **configurations**, which are pipeline definitions. _Configurations_ include, but are not limited to, a `.circleci/config.yml` file in your repo.

> A project can have one or more **triggers**, which are events from a source of change. _Triggers_ include, but are not limited to, a VCS. A trigger determines which configuration should be used to start a pipeline.

Reviewer 2: I don't really know how to address this: "A trigger determines which configuration should be used to start a pipeline".

This is _technically_ true of GitHub Apps, but is not true of GitLab. A trigger will reference a configuration source, and the configuration source determines which configuration is used to start a pipeline.

We will be building this concept out for GitHub Apps, and introducing it post-launch (I don't have a timeline on it).

Maybe best to leave as is for now because it's accurate to the current state of GitHub Apps?

Is there a process for updating this when we are able to add support for config sources?

Author: Any customer-facing changes would ideally be passed to the docs team to update relevant pages so as long as we get notified, preferably in advance, we can handle the updates.

Author: I'll leave this as it is for now.

[#people]
=== People

Project roles give control over which users have access to which projects within an organization. This enables teams to have limited access to only their projects, while managers and others can have broader organizational access. The access options are:

* Admin: Read and write access to the project and all settings and ability to manage other users' access.
* Contributor: Read and write access to the project and some settings.
* Viewer: Read only access to the project and some settings.

For a complete list of permissions, see the xref:roles-and-permissions-overview#[Roles and permissions overview] page.

[#configuration]
=== Configuration

You can add or delete a configuration source for your project. If you followed the steps above to connect GitHub, a GitHub configuration source has been automatically added for you.

Once you define a configuration source, you can set up a trigger that points to that configuration.

image::{{site.baseurl}}/assets/img/docs/gl-ga/gitlab-ga-project-settings-configuration.png[Configuration setup page]

[#triggers]

> === Triggers

Author: @Andrewwelton Could you help me with how to update this section for GH Apps? It's taken from the GitLab version of our integration docs

**The scheduled pipelines feature is not currently available for use with GitHub App integrations.** Triggers are described below, including how to use filters to trigger pipelines based on certain conditions.

Add a trigger that specifies which configuration source starts a pipeline. If you followed the steps above to connect GitHub, a trigger set with GitHub as the configuration source has been automatically added for you.

image::{{site.baseurl}}/assets/img/docs/gl-ga/gitlab-ga-project-settings-triggers.png[Trigger setup page]

Triggers and trigger rules determine how CircleCI handles events from the source of change, in this case, GitHub.

> When a trigger is created, CircleCI registers a webhook with GitLab. Push events from GitLab are sent to CircleCI. CircleCI then uses the event data to determine _if_ a pipeline should run, and if so, _which_ pipeline should be run.

Reviewer 2: With GitHub apps, there is no webhook created. When users install the app, GitHub starts sending events for the repositories they granted access to. When a trigger is created, CircleCI will then have enough information to use the event data to determine if a pipeline should run.

In addition to a configuration source, each trigger includes the webhook URL, and in this scenario, a CircleCI-created GitLab token. The webhook URL and GitLab token are used to securely register the webhook within GitLab in order to receive push events from your GitLab repo.

image::{{site.baseurl}}/assets/img/docs/gl-ga/gitlab-ga-project-settings-edit-trigger.png[Trigger details]

> **Trigger filters** allow you to determine when a trigger should initiate a build based on the parameters provided by Gitlab’s webhook. CircleCI provides some common options, for example, only build on merge requests, but you can also build your own rules using the custom filter option. For example, a custom filter would allow you to only build on a specific branch or user.

Reviewer 2: No custom filters at this time. I'm not sure about the only build merge requests option 🤔 I'm not sure where that is applied.

image::{{site.baseurl}}/assets/img/docs/gl-preview/gitlab-preview-project-settings-customize-triggers.png[Trigger details]

> NOTE: Currently, the only fields that can be edited for existing filters are **Trigger Name** and the **Filters** radio buttons.

Reviewer 2: No editing is allowed for triggers at this time.

[#project-settings-advanced]
=== Advanced

- You can enable dynamic configuration using setup workflows in CircleCI. To learn about dynamic configuration, read the xref:dynamic-config#[Dynamic configuration] guide.
- At this time, the **Free and Open Source** setting is not currently supported, but there are plans to make this available in the future.
- At this time, auto-cancel redundant workflows is not supported. Refer to the xref:skip-build#auto-cancelling[Auto cancelling] section of the `skip` or `cancel` jobs and workflows page for more details.

[#project-settings-ssh-keys]
=== GitHub project SSH keys

> 

Author: @Andrewwelton Also here, I'm not 100 sure on the flow for adding SSH keys for code checkout. I know users will be guided through this in the app but thought we should also describe the process here

When creating a project in CircleCI, you will create and add SSH keys, which are used to check out code from your repo. Each configuration you create generates a new SSH key to access the code in the repo associated with that configuration. At this time, only **Additional SSH Keys** are applicable to GitHub App integrations.

[#create-ssh-key]
==== Create an SSH key

You will be guided through the SSH key generation processing in the CircleCI web app. The steps are as follows:

. Create an SSH key-pair by using the following command. When prompted to enter a passphrase, do **not** enter one:
+
```shell
  ssh-keygen -t ed25519 -C "your_email@example.com"
```

> . Go to your project on link:https://gitlab.com/[GitLab] and navigate to **Settings > Repository**, and expand the **Deploy keys** section. Enter a title in the "Title" field, then copy and paste the public key you created in step 1. Check **Grant write permissions to this key** box, then click **Add key**.

Reviewer 2: GitHub.com here

Settings > Security > Deploy Keys

Looks like this: 
![image](https://github.com/circleci/circleci-docs/assets/6463010/bf5a6d91-7cb2-4d60-a5ce-15b3813f5509)

Adding a new one looks like this:
![image](https://github.com/circleci/circleci-docs/assets/6463010/5b220f95-2157-4f31-97ab-2a871545c527)

We do not need write access.

Author: @Andrewwelton what should the title be?

Reviewer 2: Whatever the user wants; it's ultimately not important for us.

> . Go to your project settings in the CircleCI app, select **SSH Keys**, and **Add SSH key**. In the "Hostname" field, enter `gitlab.com` and add the private key you created in step 1. Then click **Add SSH Key**.

Reviewer: We'll want to note that the input should include the ---BEGIN--- and ---END--- part of the SSH key

> . Go to your project settings in the CircleCI app, select **SSH Keys**, and **Add SSH key**. In the "Hostname" field, enter `gitlab.com` and add the private key you created in step 1. Then click **Add SSH Key**.

Author: In the figma design there is no Hostname? Is this for Title above? @Andrewwelton

> . Go to your project settings in the CircleCI app, select **SSH Keys**, and **Add SSH key**. In the "Hostname" field, enter `gitlab.com` and add the private key you created in step 1. Then click **Add SSH Key**.

Reviewer 2: Sorry, this is specifically referencing adding the SSH Key from Project settings -> SSH Keys. In this location, yes, they have to put the hostname in themselves.

For more information on SSH keys, please visit the xref:add-ssh-key#[Adding an SSH key to CircleCI] page.

[#organization-settings]
== Organization settings

For GitHub Apps integrations, organizations and users are managed independently from your VCS. Organizations and users are considered CircleCI organizations and users, with their own roles and permissions that do not rely on those defined in your VCS.

To manage settings at the organization level, click btn:[Organization Settings] in the CircleCI web app sidebar.

[#organization-settings-people]
=== People

Add or remove users, and manage user roles for the organization as well as user invites. See the xref:roles-and-permissions-overview#[Roles and permissions overview] page for full details.

[#roles-and-permissions]
== Roles and permissions

CircleCI users have different abilities depending on assigned roles in a particular organization. For a detailed list of CircleCI org and project roles and associated permissions, see the xref:roles-and-permissions-overview#[Roles and permissions] page.

[#user-settings]
== User settings

[#user-account-integrations]

> === Account integrations

Author: @Andrewwelton is this section relevant? Can existing GitLab users connect to GtiHub Apps this way for example?
![Screenshot 2023-08-03 at 15 30 59](https://github.com/circleci/circleci-docs/assets/24589403/c3397325-6fe7-4d7a-accf-ed9a524e15d0)

Reviewer 2: Nope, this is to connect to the legacy GitHub integration
